\subsection{Physics}

\begin{figure}[!b]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[scale=0.50]{fig/model.jpeg}
  \label{fig:model}
  \caption{Predictions of currents and temperature at 10m depth from
  a \texttt{HOPS} (Harvard Ocean Prediction System) model with
  assimilation of temperature and salinity measurements collected by
  CTD profiles and current-meters.}
\end{figure}

The geographical domain in which \proj will focus the observational
activity constitutes a key area for the shaping of several main
characteristics of the shelf/slope oceanography of the northwestern
Portuguese and Spanish land-mass. The marked changes in the
continental margin topography that characterize this area play an
important role in establishing the nature of the shelf response to
wind forcing or the adjustment of the poleward slope intensified
flow. The area shows several particularly expressive examples of
coastal mesoscale features such as the large upwelling filament of
Cabo Carvoeiro which is one of the larger and more persistent features
of the summer upwelling regime in the western portuguese coast, with
an expression similar to the large filaments off Cape Finisterre
(northwestern Spanish coast), Cape da Roca (near Lisbon) or Cape
S.Vicente (in the southwestern tip of Portugal).

The long and narrow \naz Canyon in addition promotes a rich variety of
coastal mesoscale and submesoscale processes that not only directly
affect the local ecosystems but can also contribute to impact a much
larger coastal ocean area. Since they are linked to the canyon
dynamics these processes develop on a relatively small area of the
coastal ocean which are associated with specific areas of the canyon
topography. In this way a strategy that concentrates several
observation systems in this small area can bring considerable insight
on the nature of the processes. This concentration is of particular
interest for \proj objectives. \kc{TO CONTINUE}
 
 